---
layout: post
title:  "Protesting Police Brutality in LA 6/2020"
date:   2020-06-03 10:36:00 -0400
categories: Activism
---

# 6/3/2020 
Below is my account of the protests over police brutality in the U.S. in Los Angeles occuring on 6/3/2020. I am writing this because I don't want to forget the feeling of this moment. Complacency is easy. Work is hard. 
<br />
<hr >
<br />
Today is the 8th day of protests happening after the murder of George Floyd by police officers in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Polly asked me if we should go amid the pandemic unfolding before our eyes. Weary of the repercussions of protesting amid a pandemic we ultimately agreed that if we could distance ourselves and wear a mask that we would could protest safely.   We took off around 3PM toward our friend’s house in Echo Park to meet them to go together. On the drive there we passed a COVID-19 testing site in Elysian park by Dodger Stadium. Lines of cones directed you to the testing area but we passed through that intersection and took a right on Vin Scully passing over the palmtree lined street to be meet with the beginning of the energy that is LA. At the intersection of Vin Scully and Sunset Blvd there were protesters with signs reading “Black Lives Matter” chanting and yelling as others honked nearby. As we got to our friends house we put on our masks and got ready to start our journey to the protests. We got in their car and drove into the city to park the car closer to Downtown LA so we could walk to the protests. As we drove, more and more protesters started to appear. Our friend honked and we all yelled in support. As we got closer and closer to downtown you could feel the energy. The helicopters overhead. The police sirens. Everything felt dystopian. Mask faced protesters walking toward the city in to protest police brutality against our American allies. As we were looking for largely unavailable parking spots, we had to take a u-turn at a wall of police and police cars blocking the entrance to the police station. We decided to park the car at the house and walk the mile to the protest instead. We arrived at the house and started our walk downtown. Our friends had two signs that read BLM and as we walked they through them in the air with large support by drivers. As we got further and further toward city hall the amount of people grew. Turning on to Temple St was when you started to see the energy. We are met with dozens of other protesters and police. This is also where you start to see The National Guard. Militarized police wielding assault rifles at a largely peaceful protest in the middle of the day. This is when you also start to feel the helicopters overhead. You couldn’t really get the full understanding of their presence until a bit later when the buildings opened up but its worth noting how much of a police presence was here.  We walked a bit further and we are met with thousands of protesters 99% of which are wearing masks to protect themselves and others during the pandemic. We start to walk into the protests with our signs and voices to contribute to the protests. We found a spot on the crowd and started chanting, “Hey Hey, ho ho, these killer cops have got to go.”  The most palpable moment was when we took a knee. Everyone got on their knee and yelled, “George Floyd!”, “George Floyd!”, “George Floyd! As I looked around I saw that the national guard was surrounding us. 100s of men and women in military uniform with assault rifles staring into the crowd.  I was nearly in tears while chanting and the support and the feeling of hope in this crowd was palpable. That feeling was ultimately met with fear as you stare around at the surrounding military but I wasn’t going to let that take away the moment of hope. We stand back up and a police helicopter flies several hundred feet above us hovering lower than normal. We chant more and more and then the crowd starts to move and we take a right on Spring St and start moving toward city hall. As you keep moving you see more and more national guard members up in the buildings.  We march toward city hall and you see 8 to 10 police officers standing on the top steps of City Hall. We are chanting at this point, “Defund the Police!”, “Defund the Police!”. Across from city hall in Los Angeles is a beautiful, open grass area where people are gathering to protest the police officers standing on those steps. At the entrance to that field a man is on a loud speaker preaching words of peace.  Telling us to talk to our racist family members. Telling us to talk to someone of a different race at this protest. To be careful not to run if something goes wrong. It was beautiful message of hope and unity and confronting the reality of life. We walked into the green grass and found a place to plop down after standing and protesting for some time. As you sit down, you start to realize the insanity of the police presence. Overhead, there are roughly 8 to 10 police choppers in the air. In 2012 a police chopper cost around $900 per hour. It says this is cheaper now as newer helicopters are released. Lets say a helicopter is $800/hr with 10 units we’re at $8000/hr. Now, lets go further to say each chopper is out for 6 hours. Now we are at $48,000 per day. What an unnecessary expense! As we sat there watching the helicopters swarm, the police officers stand above us on city halls steps, I began to realize how insane this all was. All people are asking for is accountability and for police to stop murdering U.S. citizens. We need to listen to organizations like <a href="https://www.joincampaignzero.org/">Campaign Zero</a> who have a data-backed 10 step process to reduce police brutality. Things like ending broken window policing, adding community oversight, and limiting force. I'm afraid if we don't have vast reform we are going to have a very fraught future in the United States. 